So what exactly is Cloud DevOps trying to solve?
I'll give you a few examples from the real world.
Number one is unpredictable deployments.
In the past, you would have a deployment done by
an operational team that was not involved at all in the creation of the software,
so they're not entirely sure how this is going to go.
So they just receive specifications from
developers and they do their best to get things running.
You also have a case of a mismatch environments.
What that means is, you will have a specific hardware running
production workloads and a specific hardware
that the developers used to create the application,
usually their work laptops or some development server or environment.
Now there's a risk here,
usually production would have certain specification regarding CPU, memory,
and storage and it might be different when it comes to development of
probably motor machine or just different and there
might be also differences when it comes to the operating system.
That's a little bit dangerous because that creates
a situation where you could have a deployment that used to
work perfectly in the development environment and is tested by the developers
but when it comes to the actual deployment,
it's like there's a little bit of difference in performance.
There is something wrong here and that's created by a mismatched environment.
Ideally, you want to have perfectly matching environments when it comes to
the development team and a production team and that only gets done
by integrating those teams together and having them communicate effectively.
You also have the possibility of configuration drift.
Configuration drift is when you have a problem,
let's say in production and in production, something breaks,
you call the operational team and they come in in the middle of the night, they fix it,
they make a change in that production server
in the middle of the night and now everything is working again.
The problem is, this change was done manually and now
the configuration that you have in this server does not
match what we have in the development environment.
Now, that's terrible because on the next update,
in the next feature of this software,
now you have a completely mismatch configuration that may not
reflect what the development team expects
and now you have this situation which is called configuration drift.